# Spear_Diver
Atari 2600 Homebrew Mini-Game
Spear Diver is an Atari 2600 Homebrew Mini-Game created, developed and published by Lambda Technology Inc.

Game Description
The game begins with the title screen. Press the fire button to begin the game. Immediately you will notice your score (air) decreasing at the bottom of the screen. You have a finite amount of air and it is running out quickly. Catch your first fish to begin replenishing your air levels. Beware: every fish you allow to escape will deduct 10,000 units of air from your meter. If the air meter drops below 10,000 units, you will drown. You will have to swim efficiently. Once you feel you have caught enough fish (replenished enough air) to advance, move the diver to the far right of the screen to advance to the next level. From here, there is no going back. You must advance past the squid and the shark in order to find the lost treasure. You will have to be brave to outsmart them. Good luck, player one.

Motivations for Creation
The motivation for creating this mini-game stems back to my own childhood. The Atari 2600 was one of the first game systems I had ever played.
I began teaching myself to build computers and to code at the age of 12. I've been writing code ever since and have built a career out of it. I was taught at a young age to greatly respect computers and all that they were capable of. I now have a daughter of my own and plan to instill that same respect for technology that I found as a kid. I hope to introduce her to technology with some of the earliest examples possible (My Atari 2600, Commodore 64, etc.), and gradually introduce her to more modern examples of what we have today. The goal is to cause her to understand and appreciate just how far we have come, while learning how to code and understand the inner workings of a computer along the way. In an homage to one of the earliest video game systems I played as a kid, I decided to build a mini-game for the Atari 2600. The game is designed with children and casual players in mind. I wanted to create something that might be frustrating but fun, and short enough to retain the attention of a child. In today's day and age, attention span has become shorter with the technology inundation of tablets, smartphones and the like. The game is short...and for someone very comfortable on an Atari, they may beat this mini-game fairly quickly... but for a child, it appears to be a different story. Some of the kids (my nephews, friends etc.) that tested the game out for me took nearly a half hour to beat the game... and the very best part of watching them play was a combination of both the hilarious frustration they showed, but also that none of the people who beta tested, ever gave up in frustration. They all kept playing, until they finally beat it. If you find yourself beating this game with ease, then I challenge you: Put the game in the hands of a child and hand them the classic joystick... watch the hilarity ensue while you kick back and relive those levels of frustration and finally, gratification that we all felt as kids.

Notes:
This is a mini-game and NOT a full fledged game in my own opinion, which is why I have designated the game specifically, as a mini-game. The game is programmed within 4k of ROM, and contains a mere 4 "levels". The game is made to be played specifically on the the classic hardware. Newer thumbsticks and keyboards seem to give a bit of an unfair advantage and take away from some of the "arcade" style fun that the game delivers when playing on original hardware.
***If you are downloading this game plan to use the game by way of Stella, or other emulators, I suggest that a classic joystick style controller be used for game-play. We believe you will get a much more fun and satisfying playthrough.

We hope you enjoy our very small contribution to the Atari 2600 Homebrew scene.
